PhD project
AI-driven anatomical and response adapted proton therapy
Call for applications for a fully financed PhD fellowship

Project description
Aarhus University and Aarhus University Hospital is inviting for applications for a 3-year fully funded research position as medical physics PhD student, for enrollment in the PhD program at The Graduate School of health, Aarhus University, Denmark. The PhD study will be part of the EU-funded RAPTORplus Marie-Sklodowska-Curie-Action EU Doctoral Network. 

The overall aim of the RAPTORplus project is to enable “Right-time Adaptive Particle Therapy Of canceR” with treatment personalisation through anatomical PLUS biological adaptation (https://raptor-consortium.com/). PhD projects include studies in efficient realization, technological completion, and biomarker-based adaptation. The present project falls within the latter category. Adaptive radiotherapy currently focuses on ana-tomical variation, using daily imaging to restore planned dose distributions. However, many image changes during treatment reflect biological response – tumour regression or progression, and early normal-tissue effects – which may require genuine dose level adaptation rather than dose restoration.

In this PhD project, AI-based methods will be developed to distinguish between anatom-ical and biological components of daily image changes, as well as methods for subse-quent corresponding dose optimization. The doctoral candidate will follow a structured progression of methodological tasks:

Synthetic image generation: develop and validate methods to produce ana-tomically and biologically plausible training images.
AI-based response characterization: build models that distinguish anatomy-driven from biology-driven image changes using multimodal features (population anat-omy models, quantitative image biomarkers, radiomics, segmentation, accumulated dose, and uncertainty measures).
Dose-optimization strategies: design algorithms that execute dose restoration and/or dose adaptation according to the identified type of change, including combined scenarios.
In-silico integration: implement a proof-of-concept pipeline for response cate-gorization and adaptive dose planning and evaluate it within a clinical treatment-planning system.
The PhD student will be supervised by Professor of Medical Physics Stine Korreman and will be embedded in the interdisciplinary research group "AI and big data in Radiation Oncology" (read more about the group here: www.en.auh.dk/departments/the-danish-centre-for-particle-therapy/research/research-groups/artificial-intelligence-and-big-data-in-radiation-oncology/). The group is part of the joint oncology research environment at Aarhus University Hospital and housed at the Danish Center for Particle Therapy. The research environment is well-established and of highest international standard, with research activities in radiation oncology bridging translational and clinical research. 

The PhD study will include secondments at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology - NTNU (Norway) and Politecnico di Milano (Italy), as well as with an inter-national industrial partner.
As part of the RAPTORplus consortium, you will furthermore collaborate with other PhD students not only at Aarhus University but also at the other institutions involved in the project.

PLEASE NOTE THAT APPLICATION MUST BE SUBMITTED IN DUPLICATE BOTH THROUGH THE AARHUS UNIVERSITY WEBSITE AND THROUGH THE RAPTOR CONSORTIUM WEB-SITE: https://raptor-consortium.com/recruitment/

(NB the formal requirements for the application may differ slightly between the two submission channels).

Qualifications
The candidate should have a MSc in computer science, data science, biomedical engineering, or mathematics/physics with a strong programming profile. Prior experience with deep learning for image analysis/generation will be considered a strength. Python programming experience likewise.

Furthermore the following skills will be considered essential:

Fluency in English (oral and written).
Analytical skills and ability to work independently on a project basis.
Research interests and ambitions for excellence in data driven science.
Good communication skills relevant for working in an international research group.
Prior experience in (medical) image analysis and/or radiation oncology will be considered an advantage.
How to apply
Please submit your application via this link. Application deadline is 9 February 2026 23:59 CET. Preferred starting date is 1 September 2026.

For information about application requirements and mandatory attachments, please see our application guide.  

Further information
Please contact Professor Stine Sofia Korreman, stine.korreman@clin.au.dk for more information.

All interested candidates are encouraged to apply, regardless of their personal background. Salary and terms of employment are in accordance with applicable collective agreement.   